# do less.

A multitool may do multiple things adequately, but rarely does it ever do one thing particularly well. 

A tradesperson carries a toolbox full of their various implements, each one chosen based on personal preference and appropriate application for the work they do. A multitool can cover a lot of bases for someone who needs a screwdriver for 5 minutes while performing simple home repairs, but rarely will you ever see someone whose job it is to spend a large part of their day tightening screws fiddling around with a manual screwdriver attached to a swiss army knife.

When it comes to creative tools, and especially when it comes to my chosen [[music_tools]], I prefer those that do less because most products that try to be all-in-one solutions for music creation carry a lot of baggage.

The "blank page" problem with these sorts of tools becomes more common due to too many options. A big part of the creative process is knowing where you can begin to find inspiration, and because these "creative multitools" often sacrifice immediacy of their interface for cramming in as much functionality as possible through menuing, unintuitive shortcuts, etc, this can often lead to a shallower understanding of the tool as you gravitate anyway to the parts of the tool you already know how to use, and avoid the parts you don't due to the necessarily steep learning curve.

I find the best tools and pieces of gear I own are the ones that are designed with relatively few functions, but the few things they do they do the best. They offer a sense of immediacy in their interface and comfort every time you sit down with them, which easily parlays into inspiration as the parameters of the device are easily understood holistically, driving you to push and explore those parameters in a deeper way than you otherwise would. They also are able to offer an excellent output even with their most basic usage and settings, because sometimes the best thing a good tool can offer is "set it and forget it," allowing you to focus on other things that might be more relevant to solving the particular creative problem at hand.